# Variable Naming

The Variable Naming feature suggests variable names for parameters and local variables in functions making it easier to understand the purpose of the variables in the function.

## How it works

The variable naming feature works on a per-function basis.  It submits a representation of the function to the Sidekick service, which uses a language model to suggest names for the variables.

## How to use it

During Sidekick's process for making [general suggestions](./suggestions.md#general-suggestions), Sidekick may generate suggestions for naming variables. To apply these suggestions, select each suggestion you want to apply (using `Cntrl + Click` or `Shift + Click` depending on the desired selection scope) and perform any of the following actions:

- Click on the `Accept selected suggestions` button
- Right-click and select `Apply`


To manually request and apply suggestions for naming variables in the current function, perforom the following actions:

- Select `Suggest Variable Names` from the hamburger menu in the Sidekick Suggestions sidebar
- Select each generated suggestion you want to apply following the same actions above for applying general suggestions

Alternatively, you can click on a suggested item to navigate to the variable definition.  You can then rename that variable directly using the Binary Ninja UI.  At that point, the suggestion items that refer to that variable will be removed from the list.  The remaining suggestions can be reviewed, accepted, or rejected.

## How to customize it

The `Sidekick.suggestions.variable_naming_convention` setting controls the naming convention.
The following options are available:

| Value | Description |
| --- | --- |
| any | Use whatever names are generated by the model.
| snake | Formats the variable name as `snake_case`.
| camel | Formats the variable name as `camelCase`.
| pascal | Formats the variable name as `PascalCase`.
